
Situation (COntext):
Can we predict and prevent customer churn in banks?

Customer churn refers to the case where customers end their relationship 
with a bank by ceasing to use the bank's services. It is essentially the 
rate at which customers discontinue their association  with a bank over 
a specific period of time.

Why is this important?
Minimizing customer churn is a priority for banks. Losing customers means 
losing their deposits, potential loan interest, transaction fees, and other 
sources of income. Churn prevention allows banks to develop loyalty and trust
with as many customers as possible.

Dataset features (Data): 
CreditScore: can have an effect on customer churn, since a customer with a higher 
credit score is less likely to leave the bank.

Geography: a customer’s location can affect their decision to leave the bank. (Germany, Spain, France)

Gender: it’s interesting to explore whether gender plays a role in a customer leaving the bank.

Age: this is certainly relevant, since older customers are less likely to leave 
their bank than younger ones.

Tenure: refers to the number of years that the customer has been a client of the bank. 
Normally, older clients are more loyal and less likely to leave a bank.

Balance: also a very good indicator of customer churn, as people with a higher balance in 
their accounts are less likely to leave the bank compared to those with lower balances.

NumOfProducts: refers to the number of products that a customer has purchased through the bank.

HasCrCard: denotes whether or not a customer has a credit card. This column is also relevant, 
since people with a credit card are less likely to leave the bank.

IsActiveMember: active customers are less likely to leave the bank.
EstimatedSalary: as with balance, people with lower salaries are more likely to leave the 
bank compared to those with higher salaries.

Exited: whether or not the customer left the bank.

How will we prevent customer churn rates? (method):
Using an open dataset, we plan to predict which features are most common among
customers who have exited their relationship with a bank by performing feature importance 
analysis.

By analyzing these factors, we hope to develop a plan to reduce churn rates and retain customers.

visualize:

communicate: